# Flappy Bird
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Things I've Done Well](#things-ive-done-well)
- [Things I Could've Done Better](#things-i-couldve-done-better)
- [Resources](#resources)
## Introduction
This is my **horrible** take on a classic mobile game - Flappy Bird. It isn't any different from the original version created by [Dong Nguyen in 2013](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flappy_Bird). The bird still participates in an endless journey through <font color="green">green</font> pipes (sometimes <font color="red">red</font>). The journey is not particularly new and thrilling and in fact, quite arduous and uneventful. At the same time, the project is neither difficult nor practical, considering how it is a kids' game with pre-built assets. So, ***Why Did I Do It?*** </br>
There are a few reasons, but the main one would be to make a start on my coding journey. I've been interested in coding ever since the start of highschool. I would teach myself programming languages just to get a feel of coding. And that's exactly it, only a feeling. I made plans, but not meaningful/realistic ones that I could strictly follow to improve my skills. Rather, I would occasionally get a surge of motivation to learn a framework and start a new project then abandon it and quit coding for months. As a result, I would forget what I'd learned and repeated the cycle over and over again without learning anything new or producing a single complete project. This occurs throughout my 4 years of highschool. **As such,** I need a project, any project, that would show that I can plan and execute an idea. It will be my push to stop idling on my ass and START CODING.

## Things I've Done Well
1. I created a workflow which I followed to prevent straying away from overcomplicating the project. There are different stages such as proposing, planning and executing with which I write down my ideas, consolidate my thoughts and finally actually implementing it in the code. This was great in that I could jot down pop-up idea and prevent straying from the task at hand. **As a result**, I did not feel as overwhelmed as before. I will be using the same workflow for later projects.
2. I finished the project 😅. Hear me out. I started this project one week before my 4-week trip to Vietnam. I anticipated that the game would only take me one week to complete but boy was I completely wrong. After one week, I didn't even have the basic framework down. I didn't fully understand how pygame works and I was occupied with other projects. And when I flew to Vietnam, the only major progress I made was at the airport. I couldn't find any time to work on the project during the trip. That being said, I was still able to bring myself to make some edits here and there when I don't have any plans going sight-seeing for the day. **Thus,** I was able to finish the game before going back to Canada. I'm really proud of that.
3. Even though I initially thought flappy bird was quite easy for a project, I now find it quite challenging and meaningful. I refamiliarize myself with python while learning new framwework such as pygame. I also get to start learning my way around ✨ vim ✨. Some of the game design concepts also become less strange to me. 
## Things I Could've Done Better
1. As mentioned, I was **completely wrong** about the difficulty and duration of the project. I though it would be quite easy because the concept is quite simple - just spawn pipes and move them to the left while having the bird moving up and down. **The First Problem** I ran into was not understanding pygame. I didn't understand what it means to blit a surface onto another surface or what a rect of a surface is. It wasn't similar to processing which controls an image directly rather than splitting into surface and rect then use rect to control surface (which I didn't realize 'till much later ). **Secondly,** the concept of game physics was quite hard to wrap my head around. I didn't realized that the force would stack up uncontrollably fast and shot the bird into the sky if I don't reset the velocity before applying new force. Things like these take time to experiment and make observations. **Therefore,** next time I need to make sure to account for the time to get used to a tool and unexpected problems. 
2. Another thing that really prolonged this project was I took on too many projects at once. Besides Flappy Bird, there was also learning web dev and competitive programming. I frequently focused too much on one and lost time for the other. Thus, there will be priority placed on the projects. Those with higher priority will take, say 2 hours, a day. And those, with lower priority will maybe only take 1 hour. I need to follow these rules better to improve my time management
3. I need to be more consistent with my code. For example, for the class Player, I have the pos (position attribution) as a `pygame.Vector2` but then, for the class Pipe, I have the pos as `tuple`. This has certainly created confusion and bugs in my program. To help with the problem, I will use type annotations more which I did while polishing up the game. 
4. That was quite long of a rant. Normally, I should post this on my own website/blog. But since I don't have one (yet), I'm going to keep putting this into README.md and bore everyone who sees my projects.
## Resources
Many thanks to [samuelcust](https://github.com/samuelcust) for his Flappy Bird assets <https://github.com/samuelcust/flappy-bird-assets.git>
